The President:
Hi, everybody.
On Thursday, I visited
a steel plant in Cleveland, Ohio
to talk about what we're doing
to rebuild our economy
on a new foundation
for stronger, more durable
economic growth.
One area where we've made great
progress is American energy.
After years of talk about
reducing our dependence
on foreign oil,
we are actually poised
to control our
own energy future.
Shortly after I took office,
we invested in new
American technologies
to reverse our dependence
on foreign oil
and double our
wind and solar power.
And today, we generate more
renewable energy than ever -
with tens of thousands of good,
American jobs to show for it.
We produce more
natural gas than anyone -
and nearly everyone's energy
bill is lower because of it.
And just this week, we learned
that for the first time
in nearly two decades,
the United States of America
now produces more of our
own oil here at home
than we buy from
other countries.
That's a big deal.
That's a tremendous step towards
American energy independence.
But this is important, too:
we reached this
milestone in part
not only because we're
producing more energy,
but because we're
wasting less energy.
We set new fuel standards
for our cars and trucks
so that they'll go twice
as far on a gallon of gas
by the middle
of the next decade.
That's going to
save an average driver
more than $8,000 at the pump
over the life of a new car.
We also launched initiatives
to put people to work
upgrading our homes,
businesses, and factories
so that they
waste less energy.
That's going to save
our businesses money
on their energy bills -
that's money they can
use to hire more workers.
Here's another thing.
Between more clean energy,
and less wasted energy,
our emissions of dangerous
carbon pollution
are actually falling.
That's good news
for anyone who cares
about the world
we leave to our kids.
And while our carbon
emissions have been dropping,
our economy has been growing.
Our businesses have created
7.8 million new jobs
in the past 44 months.
It proves that the old argument
that we can't strengthen the economy
and be good stewards
of our planet at the same
time is a false choice.
We can do both.
And we have to do both.
More good jobs.
Cheaper and cleaner
sources of energy.
A secure energy future.
Thanks to the grit
and resilience of American
businesses and the
American people,
that's where we're heading.
And as long as I'm President,
that's where we're going
to keep heading - to leave
our children a stronger economy,
and a safer planet.
Thanks,
and have a great weekend.